With the data being stored, it's of course interesting to see how we can fetch it and for that, let's
go to our get request where we are fetching posts and thus far, we always return that dummy data back
to our client.
Now that's not really the data I want to return, from now on we can of course return real data.
So what do we want to do here is we want to fetch data from the posts collection.
Now creating a post could be done with the help of our post model which we simply instantiated here with
the new keyword,
now for fetching data we can use the post model again but this time without the keyword. We use
a static method on it instead which is also provided by mongoose,
so here that model method returns us a constructor function which also has some static methods and
here, the method I want to use is find. Now find just as in the shell will simply return all entries.
Now to be very precise, find also can be configured to narrow down the results you get
but for now, let's use that approach where we get all results. As a side note if you want to dive much
deeper,
definitely check out the official docs and here under queries, you'll find all the information on how
to find just one element for example,
narrowed down like this or as we are doing it, for finding a lot of things,
multiple entries
but then also possibly narrowed down by passing a javascript object where you pass field values and
then the value they should hold or more complex queries.
That however is a topic for a course dedicated on mongodb or node and mongodb.
So we'll just use a very basic find operation in there which returns all results
and the thing just is how do we now get that result or these results and use them? Find like this
can be used in two ways, we can pass a function to find and that will be executed once it's done
and this callback will actually get two arguments, either an error or the result,
so the documents it fetched. Now we can use that callback but I don't want to use a callback,
we can quickly end up in callback hell,
so instead we can also chain a then block which is, well working like this on a promise, find doesn't
really return a promise, just well something, an object which has a then block that behaves similarly,
so we can basically use it in the same way and this then block will then, well hold our results.
So here we will get back all the documents and we can use them in here and for now, let's simply console
log these documents to see what we got.
Of course we can also add a catch block to handle the case that something went wrong but that's something
I'll come back to later in the course,
error handling.
So for now let's save that
and let's go back to the app and reload our angular frontend,
this will send a new get request and we get an error here.
We get an error because on the backend of course, we now no longer have posts which we send back because
we deleted that posts array.
Doesn't matter though, the interesting thing is that we have an output here on the backend which looks
exactly what we were looking for, an array of posts which clearly is coming from our database and we
can work with that.
So now we have this then block and in there we get these documents which clearly is our database data
and we see the title and content here.
Now we can return that,
so we put our response code into that then block now
and that's important,
we must execute it inside this then block because fetching that data is an asynchronous task so we need
to wait for these documents to have arrived, if we execute our response code here, then node and javascript
will simply execute this line but not wait for it to finish and immediately jump to this line where
we would then try to access something we haven't received yet.
If we put our response into that callback here in then block however, well then we're safe
and now we can rely on the documents being there. So posts now can really just be our documents because
these documents will be javascript objects which have a title and content field, exactly what we're using
on the frontend,
right?
Well almost, on the frontend we expect to get an ID field but on the backend it's named
_id.
Now we can fix this,
we can fix this by renaming it on the server,
so when we get our data, we could not directly assign documents here but call documents map, a default
javascript function and convert every document to have a structure where we have ID without an underscore
but I don't want to do that here,
I want to send that raw data back.
So I'll take care about this in a second,
for now let's save that and let's see what happens if we reload our angular app. And hey this doesn't
look too bad,
the ID doesn't matter yet because we're not using it on the frontend and this certainly looks great.
We loaded our post here and that's the data coming from our database,
so let's next worry about converting that ID thing.